Good morning everyone!
Sorry for not being able to attend on campus today, but I am not feeling well.
Hopefully you will still enjoy the presentation.
Our presentation for today is about how can art and play therapy can be effective with children.
We will start with play therapy.
First of all, does anyone know what is play therapy ? or guess ?
We will first watch a short video,
From the video it is clear that it is not the way children communicate or express their feelings, right!
Actually children can’t express themselves like we do using words and sentences, most of them can’t
even understand their feelings or frustration. However, children can reflect them through playing.
Play can be considered as their language and toys are their words.
Actually toys can act as symbols with deep meaning like dolls, dolls houses, pirate shipes, swords animal
figures, art supplies...etc.


So, the play therapy is a form of psychotherapy for children to help them communicate or explore their
emotions and thoughts and sometimes address unresolved traumas
The progress of this therapy (short/long) term depends on the relationship between the therapist and
the child so, it is important to build this trust and bond with the child, as at the end of the day he is not a
parent, teacher, relative. He is still a new person.
First, the play therapist allow a safe comfortable area for the child to play, the area or room is filled with
toys and playing activities.
Form the interaction of the children with the toys and the way they are playing, the therapist will learn
more about the thoughts and emotions the child find difficulty dealing with. The therapist will simply
communicate with the child in his language, the playing language.
The session usually lasts for 30-45 minutes
And finally, there are two main forms of the play therapy, directive and non-directive.
For the non-directive form, it is a less controlled environment where the child has a complete freedom
to enjoy any play activity with a less interference from the therapist.
However, in the directive form, the therapist will lead the child through guided play activities in order to
express themselves in a better way.
There no exact form the therapist should follow, he can use both or one of them for example he can
start by the nondirective inorder to make the child comfortable and build that trust and bond and know
generally about his thoughts and feelings and then direct him through the directive way to know more
about certain feelings or difficulties.
Any questions?
